# Calibration process

## How to use calibration.py 
The `calibration.py` generates the `stereo_calibration_data.pkl` file. This script must be run from a PC connected to a BlackBox (Raspberry Pi),
as the calibration is performed by directly accessing the stereo stream from the Raspberry.

> **NOTE:** Calibration should be repeated periodically, and also whenever the image quality changes (e.g., from 480p to 1080p).

To use the script, run: ```python3 calibration.py --help``` The two main functions are:
- `python3 calibration.py --calibrate` Starts the calibration process and saves the data to the .pkl file.
- `python3 calibration.py --upload` Uploads the .pkl file directly to the Jetson using SCP.

## Configuring Calibration Settings
In the `Config` class, it may be necessary to modify the following parameters:

- `STREAM_URL`: Set the IP address of the Raspberry Pi to access the raw video stream without processing.
- `SQUARE_SIZE`: It is very important to provide an accurate value representing the size (in cm) of each square on the chessboard.
- `DEFAULT_SERVER_IP`: This is the IP address of the Jetson device, used to upload the .pkl file.
- `JETSON_PATH`: The path on the Jetson where the file will be saved.

It is also possible to modify `MIN_CALIBRATION_IMAGES` to specify the desired number of images to be acquired for calibration

# Path planning
## How to use 
To start the script for path generation, it is necessary to run the following command from the terminal: 
```python .\canal_path_planner.py --stereo .\path\to\stereo.png --mask .\path\to\mask.png --json .\path\to\data.json```
Note that you must first have the mask generated by the water detection model—see the [repository](https://github.com/nautilus-unipd/autodocking-ros2/tree/main/autodocking_saver/autodocking_saver/open_waters). 
To obtain the stereo image and the JSON file, simply save the image retrieved from the `/video_feed` endpoint and the data from `/detection_data` into a file. 
Alternatively, you can use the utility stereo_apriltag_filesaver.py, which, once provided with the raw stereo image, saves the image produced by `/video_feed` and the data in a JSON file within the folder specified by the user:
```python3 .\stereo_apriltag_filesaver.py --image .\path\to\raw_stereo.png --output .\folder```

